news: announce github issue migration (#274)
mixxxdj/website: content/news/XXXX-XX-XX-github-issues-migration.md

title: Migrated to Github issues
authors: Nikolaus Einhauser
tags: infrastructure, development, contribute
comments: yes
status: draft

> Yes everybody, we're officially moving away from Launchpad to Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes everybody, we're moving our bug tracking away from Launchpad to GitHub.
```
The PPA and Ubuntu builds will remain ..

Author: Right... but that's not relevant for the majority of contributors, so I would've just said that we're moving away. Also I didn't say we moved completely...

If you've never tried to report a Bug in Mixxx or wanted to contribute

> otherwise, its very likely you have no idea what this Post is about,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
otherwise, its very likely you have no idea what this post is about,
```

but if you do its even better. No matter if you do or don't, keep reading.

The mixxx team has traditionally been using canonicals (the makers of Ubuntu)

> launchpad platform for hosting their code, managing bug reports and releases.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launchpad platform for hosting their code, managing bug reports and releases.  
```

> Over the years, launchpad has become increasingly dated, lack of modern features,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the years, Launchpad has become increasingly dated, lack of modern features,
```

old UI, and bad user experience is the primary reason why many people (myself

> included), especially new potential contributors, stay away from launchpad.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
included), stay away from Launchpad. Especially for new contributors the mandatory Ubuntu One account was another reason for not to immediately report a bug when it occurred.
```

Author: I don't think that's correct. You also need a github account for reporting bugs. The issue is that the bad UI/UX just turns spoiled people off.

Reviewer: At least this is the extra burden for new contributors, compared to old. I can remember a user asked me to file a bug for him because if that. But anyway, feel free to adjust you post as you like.

> We suspect Launchpad to be one of the major deterents for potential mixxx contributors.

Reviewer: Easy to say, hard to prove. Can we delete this sentence, the paragraph above speaks on it's own.

Author: Do you mean the entire paragraph should be removed or just the last sentence?

Reviewer: Only the last sentence. I think the leak of review resouces is a way bigger issue for contributors. 
The bugs tracker issue is more an issue for experienced users, filing their bugs IMHO. But by removing the sentence, everyone can make their own opinion.. 
That was my idea.

> We've started transitioning away from launchpad quite a while ago.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've started transitioning away from Launchpad quite a while ago.
```

Author: Launchpad is an "eigenname" and thus should be capitalized IMO.

Reviewer: Right 👍

Author: Ah wow, I somehow looked at your suggestions wrong and I thought you lowercased all the capitalized occurrences. Thanks.

<!-- The rest of this paragraph needs further info from older mixxx team members.
As I was not around when this happened, most of what I'm writing here is pure speculation
from my part. Please correct me if I'm wrong or if I should leave this out completely.-->

Back in XXXX we made the first major step away from Launchpad by migrating the
mixxx source code to github. Still, bug reports continued to be handled on launchpad.

> TODO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Back in 2013 we have moved from the Bazaar version control system Git and moved our main branch to GitHub.
Bug reports continued to be handled on Launchpad, because at that time the GitHub's issue implementation where not yet suitable form managing our bug fix and release workflow. This has continuously changed over the years, now GitHub has a duplicate detection feature, can organize bugs in projects and the labeling feature is flexible enough to mimic the Launchpad bug states and keep them after migration.  
```

Author: Thank you for the paragraph.

Reviewer 2: "from the Bazaar version control system **to** Git

Author: I rewrote some parts. Please re-review if you don't agree with some changes.

TODO launchpad just used for the ppa, is that correct? no contributor interaction on launchpad

> anymore.

Reviewer: correct

> TODO write about how we migrated all issues to mixxx

Reviewer: At one point we make the bug tracking in Launchpad read-only and run the migration. The Lauchpad tags will be migrated 1 to 1. We drop the priorities, because in a volunteer project like Mixxx we have no control about the personal priorities of each contributor.  The remaining Launchpad bug states and priorities will be mapped to special GitHub Lables as in the table below: 

| Launchpad  | GitHub |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Confirmed | confirmed |
| Fix Committed | (close)  |
| Fix Released | (close) |
| Incomplete | incomplete |
| In Progress | |
| Invalid | invalid |
| New | |
| Triaged | confirmed |
| Won't Fix | wontfix |
| Critical | party stopper; bug |
| High | bug |
| Low | bug |
| Medium | bug |
| Undecided |  |
| Wishlist | feature |

Author: I am aware about that table. The question is whether we should mention the "transformations" done as part of the migration in this blogpost.

Author: > We drop the priorities, because in a volunteer project like Mixxx we have no control about the personal priorities of each contributor.

I'm not sure if I agree with dropping these, but I'll continue that discussion on zulip.

Author: Nevermind, I just saw that we do have labels for the `Critical` and `Wishlist` priorities. Its fine for me that we can drop the rest.

Reviewer: > The question is whether we should mention the "transformations" done as part of the migration in this blogpost.

The idea was to use this also as a static reference in case of questions. 
The use case of the new tags after migration are probably best documented in their description field without a reference to the legacy.

Author: So do you propose to add the table to this blogpost?

Reviewer: Yes

Author: Sure

# What does this mean for existing contributors?

From today on, no more bug reports should be filed on launchpad. Currently on-going
discussion should be continued on Github instead. Note that any comments made
after 2022-07-07 22:00 UTC have not been migrated to Github.

> <!-- That's when I scraped LP last -->

Reviewer: We can make them read only before the final scrape. On the other hand it should be also not much of a problem to add the missing bits.

Existing bug reporters need to create a github account if they haven't already.

> If you have, there is a chance we might already know it and we tagged you in

Reviewer: Is this the correct term: 
```suggestion
If you have, there is a chance we might already know it and we will subscribe you to
```

Author: Not really. I think technically `@mention` would be correct. Users can configure whether they want to be subscribed to issues/PRs they have been mentioned in. The default is that you are subscribed automatically but that does not need to always be the case.

Reviewer: Ok, so let's adjust it like that.

> the newly created/migrated issues on Github (sorry for the spam).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the newly created/migrated issues on GitHub (sorry for the spam).
```

title: Migrated to Github issues
authors: Nikolaus Einhauser
tags: infrastructure, development, contribute
comments: yes
status: draft

Yes everybody, we're officially moving our bug tracking away from Launchpad to GitHub.

> If you've never tried to report a Bug in Mixxx or wanted to contribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've never tried to report a bug in Mixxx or wanted to contribute
```

otherwise, its very likely you have no idea what this post is about,
but if you do its even better. No matter if you do or don't, keep reading.

> The mixxx team has traditionally been using canonicals (the makers of Ubuntu)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mixxx team has traditionally been using Canonical's (the makers of Ubuntu)
```

Launchpad platform for hosting their code, managing bug reports and releases.  
Over the years, Launchpad has become increasingly dated, lack of modern features,
old UI, and bad user experience is the primary reason why many people (myself
included), stay away from Launchpad. Especially for new contributors the
mandatory Ubuntu One account was another reason for not to immediately report
a bug when they encountered it.

> We've started transitioning away from Launchpad quite a while ago.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

We've started transitioning away from Launchpad quite a while ago.
```
I am unsure about the blank line below

Back in 2013 we have transitioned from the Bazaar version control system to Git
and moved our main branch to GitHub. At that point in time, GitHub issues where
not yet suitable for managing our bugfix and release workflow, thus bug reports
continued to be handled on Launchpad. This has progressively changed over the
past couple of years, now GitHub has a "duplicate issue" detection feature, can
organize bugs in projects and the labeling feature is flexible enough to fillful
most of our needs.

Going forward, Launchpad will only be used for publishing to our ubuntu PPA. So
no contributor outside of the core-team will have to bother with Launchpad
again.

Shortly before starting the migration, we made our Launchpad bug tracker
read-only (some of you might have noticed that). The migration took about XX

> Hours. All of the existing messages were copied to github unfortunately we were

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hours. All of the existing messages were copied to GitHub unfortunately we were
```

not able to migrate attachments and patches, but since we won't delete the
launchpad bugtracker, you can still find those attachments there. For future
reference: decided on the following mapping from Launchpad to Github issue
labels:

| Launchpad  | GitHub |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Confirmed | `confirmed` |
| Fix Committed | *close issue*  |
| Fix Released | *close issue*  |
| Incomplete | `incomplete` |
| In Progress | *no label* |
| Invalid | `invalid` |
| New | *no label* |
| Triaged | `confirmed` |
| Won't Fix | `wontfix` |
| Critical | `party stopper`,  `bug` |
| High | `bug` |
| Low | `bug` |
| Medium | `bug` |
| Undecided | *no label* |
| Wishlist | `feature` |

Since mixxx is a project exclusively maintained by volunteers where each
volunteer is free to work on whatever they choose anyways, we decided to drop
the different priority levels assigned to issues.  

I want to express a special thanks to our core team member
[@Holzaus]({author}jan-holthuis) for writing a [custom import
script](https://gist.github.com/Holzhaus/ed384b93465dcc516ae205090e4f179b) which
made this migration feasible in the first place.

# What does this mean for existing contributors?

> From today on, no more bug reports should be filed on launchpad. Currently on-going

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From today on, no more bug reports should be filed on Launchpad. Currently on-going
```

> discussion should be continued on Github instead. Note that any comments made

Reviewer: ```suggestion
discussion should be continued on GitHub instead. Note that any comments made
```

> after XXXX-XX-XX XX:XX UTC have not been migrated to Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
after XXXX-XX-XX XX:XX UTC have not been migrated to GitHub.
```

> Existing bug reporters need to create a github account if they haven't already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Existing bug reporters need to create a GitHub account if they haven't already.
```

> title: Migrated to Github issues

Reviewer 3: Captalize all "major" words in the headline (title case).

```suggestion
title: Migrated to GitHub Issues
```

authors: Nikolaus Einhauser
tags: infrastructure, development, contribute
comments: yes
status: draft

> Yes everybody, we're officially moving our bug tracking away from Launchpad to

Reviewer 3: This is using present progressive, but you use past tense elsewhere. We should use one form consistently.

Author: I agree. I'll fix it. past tense makes more sense considering we'll publish this after the migration has been completed.

GitHub. If you've never tried to report a bug in Mixxx or wanted to contribute

> otherwise, it's very likely you have no idea what this post is about, but if you

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in other ways, it's very likely you have no idea what this post is about, but if you
```

do it's even better. No matter if you do or don't, keep reading.

The Mixxx team has traditionally been using Canonical's (the makers of Ubuntu)
Launchpad platform for hosting their code, managing bug reports and releases.
Over the years, Launchpad has become increasingly dated, lack of modern
features, old UI, and bad user experience is the primary reason why many people
(myself included), stay away from Launchpad. Especially for new contributors the
mandatory Ubuntu One account was another reason for not to immediately report a
bug when they encountered it.

We've started transitioning away from Launchpad quite a while ago:  
Back in 2013 we have transitioned from the Bazaar version control system to Git
and moved our `main` branch to GitHub. At that point in time, GitHub issues where
not yet suitable for managing our bugfix and release workflow, thus bug reports
continued to be handled on Launchpad. This has progressively changed over the
past couple of years, now GitHub has a "duplicate issue" detection feature, can

> organize bugs in projects and the labeling feature is flexible enough to fillful

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
organize bugs in projects and the labeling feature is flexible enough to fullfil
```

most of our needs.

> Going forward, Launchpad will only be used for publishing to our Ubuntu PPA. So

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Going forward, Launchpad will only be used for publishing to our Ubuntu PPA. Hence, 
```

Author: the `used` -> `using` change doesn't make sense imo.

Reviewer 3: whoops, sorry for the noise.

> no contributor outside of the core-team will have to bother with Launchpad

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
no contributor outside of the core team will have to bother with Launchpad
```

again.

Shortly before starting the migration, we made our Launchpad bug tracker
read-only (some of you might have noticed that). The migration took about XX
Hours. All of the existing messages were copied to GitHub unfortunately we were
not able to migrate attachments and patches, but since we won't delete the

> launchpad bugtracker, you can still find those attachments there. For future
> reference: decided on the following mapping from Launchpad to Github issue
> labels:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
launchpad bugtracker, you can still find those attachments there. We
decided on the following mapping from Launchpad to Github issue labels:
```

| Launchpad  | GitHub |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Confirmed | `confirmed` |
| Fix Committed | *close issue*  |
| Fix Released | *close issue*  |
| Incomplete | `incomplete` |
| In Progress | *no label* |
| Invalid | `invalid` |
| New | *no label* |
| Triaged | `confirmed` |
| Won't Fix | `wontfix` |
| Critical | `party stopper`,  `bug` |
| High | `bug` |
| Low | `bug` |
| Medium | `bug` |
| Undecided | *no label* |
| Wishlist | `feature` |

Since Mixxx is a project exclusively maintained by volunteers where each
volunteer is free to work on whatever they choose anyways, we decided to drop
the different priority levels assigned to issues.  

I want to express a special thanks to our core team member
[@Holzaus]({author}jan-holthuis) for writing a [custom import
script](https://gist.github.com/Holzhaus/ed384b93465dcc516ae205090e4f179b) which

> made this migration feasible in the first place.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the flowers :blush:

Due to the big number of bugs and the flood of related notifications, I have
noticed quickly that the script will likely hit various rate limits and spam
protection facilities.  
After [getting in contact with GitHub via

> twitter](https://twitter.com/mixxxdj/status/1546544041038422019) they assembled

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Twitter](https://twitter.com/mixxxdj/status/1546544041038422019) they assembled
```

a team of engineers and FOSS experts to help us evaluate possible solutions.
Thanks to them, we were able to avoid email spam and reduce the time the import
took by two orders of magnitude.

# What does this mean for existing contributors?

From today on, no more bug reports should be filed on Launchpad. Currently

> on-going discussions should be continued on GitHub instead. Note that any

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ongoing discussions should be continued on GitHub instead. Note that any
```

not able to migrate attachments and patches, but since we won't delete the
launchpad bugtracker, you can still find those attachments there. For future
reference: decided on the following mapping from Launchpad to Github issue
labels:

| Launchpad  | GitHub |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Confirmed | `confirmed` |
| Fix Committed | *close issue*  |
| Fix Released | *close issue*  |
| Incomplete | `incomplete` |
| In Progress | *no label* |
| Invalid | `invalid` |
| New | *no label* |
| Triaged | `confirmed` |
| Won't Fix | `wontfix` |
| Critical | `party stopper`,  `bug` |
| High | `bug` |
| Low | `bug` |
| Medium | `bug` |
| Undecided | *no label* |
| Wishlist | `feature` |

Since Mixxx is a project exclusively maintained by volunteers where each
volunteer is free to work on whatever they choose anyways, we decided to drop
the different priority levels assigned to issues.  

I want to express a special thanks to our core team member
[@Holzaus]({author}jan-holthuis) for writing a [custom import
script](https://gist.github.com/Holzhaus/ed384b93465dcc516ae205090e4f179b) which
made this migration feasible in the first place.

> This migration was also only possible because GitHub made a tremendous effort to
> help us. We noticed quite quickly that our import script was going to be
> struggling because of GitHub's secondary rate limiting. After
> [getting in contact with them via
> twitter](https://twitter.com/mixxxdj/status/1546544041038422019) they assembled
> a team of engineers and FOSS experts to help us evaluate possible solutions for
> the rate limitting problem and to avoid email spam from the imported issues.
> Thanks to them, we were able to avoid email spam and reduce the time the import
> took by two orders of magnitude.

Reviewer: We may meld this paragraph a bit. Here is a first try: 
```suggestion
Due to the big number of bugs and the flood of related notifications I have noticed quickly that running the script will likely hit various rate limit or spam protection facility.  
After contacting GitHub team via
twitter](https://twitter.com/mixxxdj/status/1546544041038422019), they made a tremendous effort to
help us with a team of engineers and FOSS experts. 
Thanks to them, we were able to avoid email spam and reduce the time the import
took by two orders of magnitude.
```

Author: Sure, that works too.

Author: To be honest, after trying to work out some of the spelling mistakes and so forth, I'm not very happy how some parts sound. Can you point out what exactly you didn't like about the first version? 

What you do think about this:
```
Due to the big number of bugs and the flood of related notifications, I have
noticed quickly that the script will likely hit various rate limits and spam
protection facilities.  
After [getting in contact with GitHub via
twitter](https://twitter.com/mixxxdj/status/1546544041038422019) they assembled
a team of engineers and FOSS experts to help us evaluate possible solutions.
Thanks to them, we were able to avoid email spam and reduce the time the import
took by two orders of magnitude.
```

Reviewer: Perfect. Thank you. 

> Can you point out what exactly you didn't like about the first version?

It was IMHO just too long and detailed compared to the rest of the blog post. That's all.

Reviewer: Oh, I just noticed my intend was lost in translation. Ich meinte "zusammenschmelzen"

Author: > Perfect. Thank you.

Great. I amended the commit.
